Now that you have your data,
you will use this data to
predict our new data points.
For example, given a new tweet,
you will use this
data to say whether
this tweet is
positive or negative.
In doing so, you want to analyze
whether your model
generalizes well or not.
In this video, we will show you
whether your model
generalizes well or not,
and specifically,
we'll show you how
to compute the accuracy
of your model.
Let's take a look at
how you can do this.
For this, you will
need X_val and Y_val.
Data that was set-aside
during trainings,
also known as the
validation sets and Theta,
the sets of optimum parameters
that you got from
training on your data.
First, you will compute
the sigmoid function for
X_val with parameters Theta,
then you will evaluate
if each value of h of
Theta is greater than or
equal to a threshold value,
often set to 0.5.
For example, if your
h X Theta is equal
to the following
vector, 0.3, 0.8, 0.5,
etc., up to the number
of examples from
your validation set,
you're going to assert if
each of its components is
greater than or equal to 0.5.
So is 0.3 greater
than or equal to 0.5?
No. So our first
prediction is equal to 0.
Is 0.8 greater than
or equal to 0.5?
Yes. So our prediction for
the second example is 1.
Is 0.5 greater than
or equal to 0.5?
Yes. So our third prediction
is equal to 1, and so on.
At the end, you
will have a vector
populated with zeros and ones
indicating predicted negative and
positive examples, respectively.
After building the
predictions vector,
you can compute the accuracy of
your model over the
validation sets.
To do so, you will compare
the predictions
you have made with
the true value for
each observation from
your validation data.
If the values are equal and
your prediction is correct,
you'll get a value of
1 and 0 otherwise.
For instance, if your
prediction was correct,
like in this case
where your prediction
and your label are
both equal to 0,
your vector will have a value
equal to 1 in the first position.
Conversely, if your second
prediction wasn't correct,
because your prediction
and label disagree,
your vector will
have a value of 0 in
the second position and
so on and so forth.
After you have
compared the values of
every prediction
with the true labels
of your validation set,
you can get the total times
that your predictions were
correct by summing up the
vector of the comparisons.
Finally, you'll divide
that number over
the total number m of
observations from
your validation sets.
This metric gives an
estimate of the times that's
your logistic regression
will correctly
work on unseen data.
So if your accuracy
is equal to 0.5,
it means that 50
percent of the time,
your model is expected
to work well.
For instance, if your Y_val
and prediction vectors
for five observations
look like this,
you'll compare each
of their values
and determine whether
they match or not.
After that, you'll have
the following vector
with a single
0 in the third position
where the prediction
and the label disagree.
Next, you have to sum the number
of times that your
predictions were right and
divide that number by
the total number of
observations in your
validation sets.
For example, you get an
accuracy equal to 80 percent.
Congratulations on finishing
the first week of
this specialization.
You learned many
concepts this week.
The first thing you
learned is you learned how
to preprocess a text.
You learned how to extract
features from that text.
You learned how to use
those extracted features
and train a model using those.
Then you learned how
to test your model.
In this week's
programming exercise,
you're going to get a
chance to implement
all these concepts
that we spoke about.
Feel free to go ahead and do
the programming exercise.
There's also an optional video at
the end of this week which covers
the intuition behind
the cost function for
logistic regression.
If you don't want to
watch that video,
feel free to go to next week,
where you will learn about
a new classification algorithm
known as naive Bayes.